I'm talking about how jQuery changed the JavaScript world. Select
using CSS selectors; consume HTML to produce DOM objects. Regardless of how you feel
about jQuery-the-library, the concept is solid.

CSS works because it has some nice properties.

Selectors are easy to transform into a matching function -- a function
that takes a node, and given that node, its parents, and its previous
siblings, can determine whether or not the node matches. That is to
say, you can't select "ahead" of the current node in any sense -- one
couldn't write a selector that said "give me all paragraphs who are 
succeeded by divs." You could write the inverse, though -- "give me
all divs preceded by paragraphs." This happens to match the information
we have available to us when we traverse the AST "depth first."

Selectors are also very terse -- relations between nodes can be codified
into one of four operations: direct siblings, indirect siblings, direct
parents, and indirect parents. Direct siblings say whether or not the
immediate sibling of this node matches the next selector; indirect siblings
match if *any* of the preceding sibling match. The same goes for parent
selectors. It's best to read these selectors from right to left -- that's
how they're executed. If the first test passes, then traverse to the next
test, all the way to the left of the selector.

They have the ability to represent and check a given node's *type* and its
*attributes*. They have the ability (via psuedoclasses) to check other positional
information about the node (for instance, "first-child", "nth-child", etc).
Commas represent alternatives. If any selector in a group of comma-delimited 
selectors match, the selector group as a whole matches.

CSS4 brings us useful features as well: :any/:matches lets us borrow the comma
behavior for individual nodes -- does this node match any of these selectors?
And subject selectors -- denoted by placing an exclamation point before a
selector group -- further enhance our ability to select nodes by letting us
return an ancestor node as a result when the selector matches.

